# ribbon-panels

Work published in F. Agnelli, M. Tricarico, A. Constantinescu.
Shape-shifting panel from 3D printed undulated ribbon lattice
Extreme Mechanics Letters, Elsevier BV, 2020, 42, 101089

## Status
Operational

## Authors
- Filippo Agnelli
- Michele Tricarico
- Andrei Constantinescu

## Abstract

<p float="left">
    <img src="https://github.com/fagnelli/ribbon-panels/blob/main/geometry/figures/unit_cell-2.png" width="300">
    <img src="https://github.com/fagnelli/ribbon-panels/blob/main/geometry/figures/panel.png" width="300">
</p>

*Materials that change their shape in response to external stimuli open up new 
prospects for efficient and versatile design and shaping of three-dimensional 
objects. Here, we present a novel class of micro-structures exhibiting an 
extension-bending coupling (EBC) effect, that can be harnessed as an elementary 
building block for shape-shifting panels. They are built with a single material 
as a network of undulated ribbons. The deformations mechanisms of both single
and connected undulated ribbons are analysed using the finite element method to
explain the main features of the EBC mechanism. For a particular micro-structure
of the proposed class, the elastic response is investigated both under small
strain assumption combining two-scale homogenization with Kirchhoffâ€“Love plate 
theory, and at finite strains relying on numerical analysis. The range of
achievable EBC ratio is then assessed with respect to the geometric parameters
of the unit cell. Patterned specimens are manufactured using a commercial FFF
Ultimaker 3D printer and are mechanically tested at finite strain up to 20%. The
displacement measured by point tracking match the predictions from the finite
element simulations and indicate that the structure maintain its properties at
finite strain. Moreover, a tensile test load with point-like boundary is
proposed to highlight exceptional out of plane displacement. The proposed ribbon
based architectures can be combined with active materials for the actuation of
shape shifting structures, like soft robots, control systems and power devices.*

## Platform and language

Python (required packages include Geomdl, Pyvista)